JUDY WOODRUFF: Good evening.
I'm Judy Woodruff.
On the "NewsHour" tonight: The
Trump administration
attempts to move past last
week's health care
defeat, only to be struck by
mounting questions
over Russia connections.
Then: Thousands take to the
streets in anti-government
protests across Russia, marking
the largest
show of defiance in recent
years.
And Turkey's economic freefall:
how political
upheaval and terrorism are
threatening the
nation's once thriving markets.
JANSET BILGIN, Business Owner:
The city is
very quiet now.
Tourists, they don't come.
The locals don't come, because
we're right
in the middle of the city, but
the bombings
and everything are not too far
from here,
so people are kind of scared.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Plus, our
Politics Monday team
is here.
After last week's drama, who can
work with
whom, and for what?
All that and more on tonight's
"PBS NewsHour."
(BREAK)
JUDY WOODRUFF: Friday's failure
to get a House
vote on replacing Obamacare is
still reverberating
tonight.
But the president and his team
are finding
it difficult trying to shift to
new topics.
John Yang has our report.
SEAN SPICER, White House Press
Secretary:
We're not saying its the end of
health care,
but I think that we're looking
to look for
a way forward.
JOHN YANG: At the White House
today, Press
Secretary Sean Spicer was the
public face
of the effort to move beyond the
humiliating
collapse of President Trump's
attempt to repeal
the Affordable Care Act.
SEAN SPICER: What this event on
Friday did
was frankly draw more people
into the process
to saying, OK, let's figure out
if we can
actually come together with some
consensus
ideas to get to 218, whether or
not they come
from one side of the aisle or
the other.
JOHN YANG: But much of the day
was dominated
by mounting questions about the
House Intelligence
Committee chairman's revelation
that Trump
transition communications had
been intercepted.
Today, Representative Devin
Nunes acknowledged
he got that information during a
meeting with
a source, not a White House
official, in the
Old Executive Office Building in
the White
House complex.
Today, Spicer said he couldn't
say with certainty
that the White House wasn't the
source of
Nunes' information.
SEAN SPICER: What I can tell you
through his
public comments is that he has
said that he
had multiple sources that he
came to a conclusion
on.
So, to the degree to which any
of those sources
weighed on the ultimate outcome
of what he
came to a decision on, I don't
know.
And that's something that,
frankly, I don't
even know that he discussed with
the president.
QUESTION: So it's possible, as
far as you
know right now?
SPICER: Well, anything --
anything is possible.
JOHN YANG: Meanwhile, White
House officials
said the president's close
adviser and son-in-law
Jared Kushner has volunteered to
meet with
the Senate Intelligence
Committee to talk
about meetings he arranged with
the Russian
ambassador during the
transition.
The president sought to give the
appearance
of business as usual, signing
four bills into
law to roll back regulations put
in place
by the Obama administration.
And he joined daughter Ivanka
and Vice President
Pence in a meeting with women
entrepreneurs.
Aides said the president's next
major legislative
initiative will be an ambitious
overhaul of
the tax code, and this time the
White House
will be in charge.
SEAN SPICER: Obviously, we're
driving the
train on this.
I don't want to -- I mean, we're
going to
work with Congress on this.
JOHN YANG: For the "PBS
NewsHour," I'm John
Yang.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Later this
afternoon, Senate
Democratic Leader Schumer said
Devin Nunes
should be removed as chair of
the House Intelligence
Committee.
But House Speaker Paul Ryan said
through a
spokesman that he has full
confidence in Nunes.
In the day's other news: Wall
Street fought
against fears that the health
care bill's
collapse means trouble for the
Trump economic
agenda.
The Dow Jones industrial average
dropped nearly
200 points at the outset, before
ending with
a loss of 45 points to close
near 20551.
The Nasdaq rose 11 points, and
the S&P 500
slipped two.
Turkey's citizens who live
abroad began voting
today on dramatically expanding
President
Recep Tayyip Erdogan's powers.
More than 2.5 million Turks were
eligible
to vote across Europe.
And political divisions were on
display, as
they turned out in France,
Germany and other
countries.
WOMAN (through translator): This
is about
Turkey's future right now,
because they are
trying to change the republic or
democracy
into a dictatorship of one man.
And I'm against that.
MAN (through translator): We are
sticking
together for Turkey and the
future of the
Turkish republic.
We have a Turkish republic, and
we will say
yes all the way to the end.
We are here to support the
stability of our
country.
JUDY WOODRUFF: The referendum
has strained
relations between Turkey and
several European
states that barred Turkish
officials from
campaigning in their territory.
Voting inside Turkey begins next
month.
The major political parties in
Northern Ireland
will get several more weeks to
reach a new
power-sharing deal.
The British government extended
today's deadline
after negotiators failed to get
an agreement
over the weekend.
Northern Ireland's
Catholic-Protestant unity
government collapsed in January.
The alternative would be
returning the province
to direct rule by London.
In Australia, a cyclone began
blasting its
way onshore early Tuesday, with
winds of 140
miles an hour.
The target was the northeastern
state of Queensland,
where the eye of the storm was
due to make
landfall within hours.
People packed sandbags ahead of
the storm.
And up to 30,000 people were
urged to evacuate
the coastal region.
And historian, journalist and
civil rights
activist Roger Wilkins died
Sunday, after
suffering dementia.
Wilkins held a top civil rights
post in the
Lyndon Johnson administration
during the 1960s.
He went on to write editorials
for The Washington
Post during the Watergate
scandal.
And for years, he was a frequent
"NewsHour"
guest.
Roger Wilkins was 85 years old.
Still to come on the "NewsHour":
protests
across Russia galvanize Putin's
critics; claims
that scores of civilians have
been killed
by a U.S. airstrike in Iraq;
patients still
in limbo, wondering about the
future of the
Affordable Care Act; and much
more.
in limbo, wondering about the
future of the
Affordable Care Act; and much
more.
Widespread protests broke out in
cities across
Russia's 11 time zones yesterday
to denounce
government corruption.
Chief foreign affairs
correspondent Margaret
Warner begins our coverage.
MARGARET WARNER: The sentence
for Kremlin
critic Alexei Navalny was handed
down this
morning in Moscow: 15 days in
jail for resisting
police.
He was also fined 20,000 rubles,
about $350,
for organizing yesterday's mass
protests against
alleged government corruption.
ALEXEI NAVALNY, Russian
Opposition Leader
(through translator): I think
yesterday's
events have shown there is a
large number
of voters in Russia who support
a candidate
who speaks for the fight against
corruption.
These people demand political
representation.
MARGARET WARNER: The
demonstrations were the
biggest show of defiance against
President
Vladimir Putin since 2012.
Tens of thousands rallied in 99
cities, from
St. Petersburg and Moscow in the
west, to
Chita in Siberia, to the far
Pacific coast
port of Vladivostok.
Navalny generated the protests,
in part, to
demand the resignation of Prime
Minister and
former President Dmitry
Medvedev.
Navalny released a video earlier
this month
showcasing myriad mansions,
yachts and vineyards
Medvedev allegedly has amassed.
Hundreds of protesters were
arrested yesterday
in Moscow and elsewhere.
Today, the European Union called
for their
release.
A Putin spokesman said: "The
Kremlin respects
people's civic stance and their
right to voice
their position.
We can't express the same
respect to those
who consciously misled people
and provoked
illegal actions."
White House spokesman Sean
Spicer said today:
SEAN SPICER, White House Press
Secretary:
The United States will monitor
the situation.
And we call on the government of
Russia to
immediately release all peaceful
protesters.
MARGARET WARNER: For his part,
Navalny has
announced plans to challenge
Putin for president
in 2018.
But his eligibility to do so is
in question
over previous criminal charges.
For the "PBS NewsHour," I'm
Margaret Warner.
JUDY WOODRUFF: For more on the
protests, President
Putin, and where this goes from
here, I'm
joined by journalist and author
Masha Gessen.
She's a contributing opinion
writer for The
New York Times.
And among her books is a study
of the Russian
president titled "The Man
Without a Face:
The Unlikely Rise of Vladimir
Putin."
And she joins me from New York.
Masha Gessen, thank you very
much for joining
us.
Ninety-nine cities, the biggest
demonstrations
in five years, just how
significant was this?
MASHA GESSEN, The New York
Times: It's even
bigger than that.
It's not just the biggest in
five years.
It is the first time since 1993
that Russians
have come out into the streets
without an
explicit permission from the
government to
do so.
The main difference between the
protests of
2011-2012 and these protests
today is that
they didn't have permits.
These were -- the people who
were coming out
into the streets were very young
people, for
the most part, who knew that
they were all
risking arrest.
It's an extraordinary event.
JUDY WOODRUFF: You say young
people.
Who are the people, mainly, who
turned out?
MASHA GESSEN: Judging from the
video and photo
footage, from eyewitness
accounts and from
the arrest records, this is the
youngest crowd
we have seen in the streets.
A lot of these people, most of
these people
are under 30.
And a lot of them are high
school students.
They are people who have never
lived in Russia
without Putin.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Much of this had
to do with
this video of Medvedev, the
prime minister.
What -- why was that notable?
What was it in that that
triggered this reaction?
MASHA GESSEN: It's not just a
video.
It's a huge investigative
project carried
out by Alexei Navalny's
anti-corruption organization.
So, they put together a story,
and they put
together a film that
demonstrated and meticulously
documented the scale of
corruption on the
part of Russia's prime minister,
Dmitry Medvedev.
JUDY WOODRUFF: And what was it
about the scale
of corruption?
We mentioned some of it, the
houses, the extravagant...
MASHA GESSEN: The houses, the 50
pairs of
sneakers or however many he
orders every month.
The -- just, it's obscene.
And I think that that's a really
important
aspect of it.
It's not just that he has a lot
of money.
It's that he behaves obscenely
with that amount
of money.
It is sort of -- it is
unimaginable.
It is unimaginable indecency.
And it has been made public.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Given the level
of repression
in Russia, Masha Gessen, what do
protesters
think they can accomplish?
MASHA GESSEN: I don't think
these are protesters
who have a specific goal in
mind, as in, we're
going to come out into the
streets and get
this done.
I think that, again, these are
very young
people, so they may not be fully
aware of
the threat that they are facing.
The last protests in Russia five
years ago
ended in a massive crackdown and
in dozens
arrests of peaceful
demonstrators who went
to prison for years at a time.
So, I think it's likely that the
same fate
will face these young people.
I think they may even need a
greater crackdown
to put an end to these protests,
because these
are young people who don't watch
television
and who won't be quite as afraid
of jail,
just because they are so young.
So, what I really fear is, if
these protests
continue, is the kind of
violence in the streets
that we haven't seen before in
Russia.
JUDY WOODRUFF: You have
mentioned a couple
of times the threat that they
face.
I mean, how real is the threat?
What could happen to these
people if they
continue to come out in the
streets?
MASHA GESSEN: Well, what has
happened to protesters
in the past was that, basically,
the government
in 2012 put an end to a series
of mass protests
by changing laws, by making it
possible to
arrest anybody for protests, and
by making
basically a show of imprisoning
not just protest
leaders, and not specifically
protest leaders,
but activists, rank-and-file
protest participants.
That gets across the idea that
anybody who
joins a protest without being an
organizer,
without being a visible leader,
risks arrest,
and not risks just arrest, but
years in a
Russian jail.
JUDY WOODRUFF: And do you see
anything changing
about this regime as a result of
this level
of public distrust of this
government?
MASHA GESSEN: Well, yes and no.
They're -- I mean, these
protesters came out
against corruption, which is a
little bit
different from coming out
against -- politically
against this regime.
Importantly, they were not
protesting the
war in Ukraine.
They were not protesting the
murder of opposition
leaders.
They were protesting corruption.
That does give the government an
opportunity
to take anti-corruption
measures, to fire
Medvedev, to fire somebody else
who can be
accused of corruption, to make a
show of fighting
corruption.
Right?
I think these protesters at this
point are
stopping a little bit short of
demanding an
end to the Putin regime.
Their demands are not explicitly
political
nature.
They are really demanding good
government.
But that could change.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Masha Gessen,
journalist and
author, we thank you.
MASHA GESSEN: Thank you.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Now: A bombing in
Iraq by the
American-led military coalition
leaves scores
JUDY WOODRUFF: Now: A bombing in
Iraq by the
American-led military coalition
leaves scores
dead.
John Yang has that.
JOHN YANG: The airstrike took
place in the
Al Jadida neighborhood of
Western Mosul amid
pitched fighting between ISIS
militants and
Iraqi government forces.
The reports from the scene are
gruesome, more
than 100 dead.
For more on this incident and
the brutal battle
there, I'm joined from Irbil in
Northern Iraq
via Skype by Loveday Morris of
The Washington
Post.
Loveday, thanks for joining us.
I know it's very late there.
It's been 10 days since this
incident took
place.
The Pentagon said the air
assault took place
on March 17.
What do we know about what
happened?
LOVEDAY MORRIS, The Washington
Post: What
happened was, Iraqi forces were
advancing
into the area at the time with
an ISIS-held
area.
It was one where residents say
that there
were a lot of ISIS fighters
fighting from
the rooftops, and they were
sheltering in
their homes.
And as the Iraqi forces
advanced, there was
heavy bombardment on this
neighborhood.
And there are allegations of
actually multiple
buildings hit by U.S.
airstrikes, but that
one particular building where
they have pulled
out more than 100 bodies, 101
bodies now,
and that's an alleged site of
one of the strikes.
JOHN YANG: But the Iraqis are
saying that
it was booby-trapped by ISIS.
LOVEDAY MORRIS: Yes, that's
right.
They said they have made an
initial investigation,
and this particular building was
booby-trapped
by ISIS.
Initially, commanders blamed it
on an ISIS
car bomb, the collapse.
There have been several
conflicting stories.
Iraqi civil defense, the rescue
workers who
are pulling the bodies out of
the building,
they say they're experts in
building collapses,
and they say this was caused by
an airstrikes.
And the U.S. coalition has said
that it carried
out a strike at the location of
accusations
of mass civilian casualties.
JOHN YANG: We have seen this
fighting around
Mosul really intensify.
President Trump had said he
wanted give commanders
in the field more flexibility.
What do we know about the rules
covering airstrikes
like these?
Have they changed since
President Trump came
into office?
LOVEDAY MORRIS: What we hear on
the U.S. side
and from the coalition is, no,
there's been
no change at all for the rules
of engagement
so far.
The Iraqis are saying that as
well.
Official, there's no change to
the rules of
engagement.
There does seem to be some
speeding of the
process of calling in
airstrikes.
They have made the process
faster.
They have put U.S. forward air
controllers
closer to Mosul.
But it's really unclear what
exactly is causing
this.
And there has been a spike now
in civilian
casualty accusations both in
Iraq and Syria.
JOHN YANG: And this is in Mosul,
some of the
most intense urban fighting,
street-to-street,
house-to-house.
What is the impact on the
civilian population?
LOVEDAY MORRIS: It's a huge
impact.
You have a huge amount of
ordnance flying
into that city, not just from
airstrikes,
but from artillery.
And, obviously, ISIS also uses
heavy weaponry
and booby-traps.
Really, you talk to civilians
that are coming
out of Mosul, they have been in
their basements
for weeks on end.
They're absolutely terrified.
ISIS are using their rooftops
and make them
keep their front doors open.
So, they're very scared of
airstrikes on their
own houses while they're hiding
inside.
People are coming out, and, yes,
a horrific
state.
There's very little food, water
inside.
The area is under siege.
It's a terrible situation for
civilians.
JOHN YANG: Are they able to
flee?
LOVEDAY MORRIS: Some are.
Some aren't.
I mean, they normally can't flee
until the
Iraqi security forces get to
their area.
What has happened, in some
cases, ISIS will
send a wave of civilians out.
They will order them to leave
their homes.
The Iraqis will have to hold
fire if there's
a big wave of civilians coming
out.
It really slows them down.
So, sometimes, people come out
like that.
Other times, ISIS keep them in,
keeps them
blocked in their neighborhood to
use as human
shields.
And, in that case, I mean, any
time people
are coming out, they're always
caught in very
dangerous crossfire.
You have snipers.
You have mortars.
Yes, it's tough for people to
get out, for
sure.
JOHN YANG: Loveday Morris, The
Washington
Post, from Irbil, thanks for
joining us, and
be safe.
LOVEDAY MORRIS: Thank you.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Stay with us.
Coming up on the "NewsHour":
Turkey's political
turmoil breeds economic
uncertainty for that
U.S. ally; and it's Politics
Monday -- Amy
Walter and Tamara Keith survey
the landscape
after the collapse of the health
care bill.
But first: What's next for the
future of the
Affordable Care Act and the
consumers who
are using it?
After the Republican bill was
withdrawn on
Friday, House Speaker Paul Ryan
said -- quote
-- "Obamacare remains the law of
the land
for now."
But there are problems that need
to be addressed.
President Obama himself has said
so.
More than 20 million people are
now getting
coverage through the insurance
marketplaces
and a Medicaid expansion.
Lisa Desjardins looks at the big
questions
ahead.
LISA DESJARDINS: One major
issue: the health
of the marketplaces for
individuals who get
insurance on their own.
For them, premiums rose by an
average of 25
percent this year.
What's happening?
In part, the exchanges need more
younger and
healthier adults to enroll.
Our team has been fanning out
across the country
to hear about Americans'
concerns.
We start with a small business
in Salt Lake
City, and younger adults who are
not buying
coverage now.
PATRICIA SMITH, Salt Lake City:
My name is
Patricia Smith.
I'm 33 years old, and I'm the
manager at Camp
Bow Wow.
Before the ACA, it was much more
reasonable
for me to be able to afford
insurance.
The health care act came up, and
although
the first time when I applied, I
was able
to get subsidies, when I filed
taxes at the
end of the year, they ended up
telling me
that, as a matter of fact, I
shouldn't have
been able to get subsidies, and
I had to pay
all of them back.
Moving forward, from that point
on, I was
really not in a position to be
able to afford
health insurance anymore.
If I had chosen to get
insurance, the cost
of living for me would've
changed.
My grocery bills, I wouldn't be
able to afford,
my gas, my mortgage.
It really would take a toll on
everything.
I definitely do worry about not
having insurance.
There's a lot of what-ifs.
Even last year, I took a tumble
down the stairs
and ended up in an InstaCare.
And there's just a lot of
worries that go
with that.
JOHN GARRETT, Salt Lake City:
I'm John Garrett.
I'm 24 years old, and I am a
front desk associate
here at Camp Bow Wow.
I'm not very worried about not
having health
insurance at the moment, because
I'm pretty
young, and I don't have that
much going on
with me.
So if I can, you know, afford to
skip that
bill and save that, that much
money a month,
I definitely would prefer to do
that.
We did have to pay a penalty for
not having
health insurance.
So, the first year, it was about
$200.
And that wasn't a big deal at
the time.
The next year, I think it was
double, about
$400, and then the year after
that, it was
$700.
PATRICIA SMITH: I think it's a
little silly
for me to have to pay for
something that I
simply can't afford anyways.
Moving forward, if the law is
supposed to
change and we're able to afford
health insurance
and we were able to get money
back and things
like that to pay for it, I would
love to put
money in health insurance, so
that I don't
have to have the worry that I
have right now.
LISA DESJARDINS: At the same
time, there are
concerns about out-of- pocket
costs.
Let's meet a woman in Ohio who
has a chronic
health problem and is grateful
for the coverage
she receives through the
Affordable Care Act.
She was politically active in
opposing the
Republican bill, but says even
the current
law could be improved.
MINDY HEDGES, Radnor, Ohio: My
name is Mindy
Hedges.
I live in Radnor, Ohio, Delaware
County.
And my age is 61.
Well, I'm a type 1 diabetic.
I have been a type 1 diabetic
since the age
of 5.
That means a lot of medication.
And I test myself, my blood
sugar, about six
to eight times a day.
It is a lot of medicines that I
need to take.
I'm on an insulin pump, very
expensive.
My pharmaceuticals are about
$1,200 a month.
I had a -- my own company for 18
years, and
the recession hit and the
business closed.
I tried to get insurance and
couldn't.
Nobody would cover me because I
have a preexisting
condition.
And of the company that I talked
to me at
all about how much it would
cost, it was between
$2,500 to $5,000.
And even at that, they also
wouldn't cover
me
So, I was begging for -- people
were giving
me supplies.
I had a friend that worked in
the medical
field that was giving me insulin
and syringes.
MAN: All these coverages just
wouldn't cover
me.
MINDY HEDGES: I was waiting for
the Affordable
Care Act to come into to get
passed.
Finally, it did.
And I was so thankful.
We pay a substantial amount, but
I still get
a subsidy for it.
So, my payment right now is $445
a month.
And it's not a system that --
that is that
is pure.
And I'm sure that it has some
things that
need to be fixed.
And if only we could just fix
them, instead
of coming up with something that
is so totally
broken.
LISA DESJARDINS: That's a
sampling of the
concerns we heard across the
country.
Let's get our hands around what
exactly will
happen now with health care.
Problems remain, but how will
insurers and
all of us handle them?
Mary Agnes Carey of Kaiser
Health News is
here to walk through some of
these issues.
Thank you for joining us, Mary
Agnes.
MARY AGNES CAREY, Kaiser Health
News: Thanks
for having me.
LISA DESJARDINS: Let's start
with something
President Trump said on Friday.
Listen.
DONALD TRUMP, President of the
United States:
I have been saying for the last
year-and-a-half
that the best thing we can do,
politically
speaking, is let Obamacare
explode.
It is exploding right now.
Many states have big problems.
Almost all states have big
problems.
LISA DESJARDINS: Now, it's
obviously a piece
of rhetoric, but it is certainly
echoed around
Washington.
I will just ask you right away:
Will Obamacare
explode?
Is that accurate?
And regardless of the answer of
at the question,
where are the real problems now?
MARY AGNES CAREY: I don't think
it will explode.
There are definitely some
problems with affordability.
You mentioned that average 25
percent increase
in the federal exchanges.
Rural areas, the prices tend to
be higher.
Urban areas, the prices tend to
be lower.
So, it really depends on where
you live.
Are insurers getting into that
market?
How much competition is there
between the
doctors and the hospitals, that
sort of thing,
with the providers in the
marketplace?
But there's a lot of variance.
Let me give you an example.
For this year, in 2017, for one
of the plans
offered on the exchange, for a
40-year-old
nonsmoker in Louisville,
Kentucky, it was
$229 a month.
That same premium in Anchorage,
Alaska, was
$904, but this is before the
subsidies that
help eight in 10 people in the
exchanges lower
that price.
LISA DESJARDINS: And so it seems
that rural
areas, Anchorage might be an
example, those
are the ones where see the
biggest problems.
Now, Congress, it seems, is not
planning to
do anything to repair the
system, at least
in the foreseeable future.
But insurers have no choice.
They have to take action.
What are the decisions facing
insurers coming
up soon?
MARY AGNES CAREY: Sure.
They have to decide by June --
it was May,
but the administration moved it
back because
of all the uncertainty over the
health care
debate we have both been
covering on Capitol
Hill.
So, by May, they need to get --
by June, rather,
they need to get in their
premium estimates.
And so they will be looking at
their experience
in the market.
Who are they covering?
How sick have these people been?
We know that the sickest folks
came in first.
They're very, very expensive.
Some have thought that 25
percent premium
jump is going to be sort of a
one-time anomaly.
Will that even out for 2018?
What's the competition in the
marketplace?
Are other insurers there looking
at their
risk pool, all the people
they're insuring?
They're trying to get a full
look everything.
And they will also be wondering
if the Trump
administration will enforce this
thing called
the individual mandate.
This is a requirement that most
Americans
have coverage or pay a fine.
Insurers like it because it
makes the healthy
and the sicker people get in.
LISA DESJARDINS: Like the
younger people that
we heard mentioned in the piece.
MARY AGNES CAREY: Exactly.
LISA DESJARDINS: That was
obviously something
they were thinking about, that
penalty.
MARY AGNES CAREY: Right.
LISA DESJARDINS: The question is
whether the
Trump administration will
actually force them
to pay it.
MARY AGNES CAREY: Right, because
the younger
people tend to be healthier.
And the more of those folks that
are in the
risk pool, the better off, the
lower the premiums,
usually.
LISA DESJARDINS: All right,
Republicans still
have the health and human
services secretary,
Tom Price.
What power does he have?
Or Hollywood decisions is he
thinking about
right now when it comes to the
Affordable
Care Act and our health care
system?
MARY AGNES CAREY: Sure.
He could do some things
administratively.
We have to remember the
Affordable Care Act
gives the health and human
services secretary
lots and lots of power.
He could examine these things
called the essential
health benefits, those 10
categories that
include maternity care,
emergency services,
mental health services, and
perhaps give insurers
a little more flexibility over
whether or
not they have to offer those.
When you talk about the Medicaid
program,
they may be a lot more open to
new approaches
from states, including work
requirements for
the Medicaid beneficiaries.
And back to the Affordable Care
Act, there
is this other area of subsidies.
There's premium subsidies.
There's cost-sharing subsidies.
They're part of a legal battle,
but the bottom
line is, the Trump
administration and Republicans
in Congress could decide not to
fund these.
About 60 percent of people who
get help on
the exchanges get the
cost-sharing.
They help with the co-pays and
other out-of-pocket
deductibles.
And if they did, they would have
quite a problem
with the insurers.
LISA DESJARDINS: And so to be
clear now, that
is not the general subsidies
people get to
get insurance.
MARY AGNES CAREY: no.
LISA DESJARDINS: That is help
for people to
pay when you get to the doctor,
your deductible
and all of that.
MARY AGNES CAREY: That's right,
your out-of-pocket.
LISA DESJARDINS: And the
Republicans could
decide not to provide that
money.
Insurers are worried, if
Republicans don't,
then they are going to have
people who don't
pay.
(CROSSTALK)
MARY AGNES CAREY: That's right.
If they don't have the money,
they can't make
the deductible.
They can't make the co-pay.
So, if they went ahead with
that, they could
have some pushback from the
insurers.
LISA DESJARDINS: So, briefly, I
guess, to
sum all this up, at the end of
the day, what
should people be thinking about
and how much
-- what should people to watch
to see if their
life will change under health
care?
MARY AGNES CAREY: First of all,
I think take
a breath.
This has been kind of confusing
for people,
all the fights on Capitol Hill,
what is happening.
Look at your own health
insurance situation.
If you're on the exchanges or
thinking about
them, as we head into fall with
the next open
enrollment period, see what your
options are.
Healthcare.gov is the electronic
marketplace.
You can get on healthcare.gov.
You can work with a broker, an
insurance agent.
Who's offering coverage?
Is your current plan there?
Are your providers covered?
What's your total cost on your
premium and
your out-of-pocket?
LISA DESJARDINS: A lot to be
watching for.
MARY AGNES CAREY: A lot.
LISA DESJARDINS: And I know you
will be watching
with us.
Mary Agnes Carey, thank you so
much for joining
us.
MARY AGNES CAREY: Thank you.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Turkey once
boasted that its
economy was the star of
so-called developing
markets.
But political uncertainty and
increasing terrorism
from both ISIS and Kurdish
separatists have
sent key economic numbers
tumbling, and ratings
agencies have slashed the
country's creditworthiness.
International concerns about
next month's
referendum, which could give
President Erdogan
greater power, are also
contributing to the
economy's decline.
And a push to increase Islam's
place in public
life is driving some Turks to
consider leaving
their homeland.
Special correspondent Malcolm
Brabant reports
from Istanbul.
MALCOLM BRABANT: There's a touch
of desperation
about this sign, with its plea
for custom.
It's a message that resonates in
Turkey.
The people in this cafe are tour
guides who've
swollen the ranks of the
unemployed.
Among them, Mert Taner.
MERT TANER, Tour Guide: After
all those explosions
and terror attacks by al-Qaida,
ISIS, or PKK,
nearly 80 percent of the
Anglo-Saxon business,
which I'm personally involved in
it, people
from North America, Britain,
Australia, New
Zealand, they stopped coming to
Turkey.
MALCOLM BRABANT: The slump in
tourist numbers
is the worst ever.
Sheref Aral says that, after the
New Year's
Eve nightclub massacre, the
outlook has never
been more bleak.
SHEREF ARAL, Tour Guide: Every
bomb that has
happened, I have changed my plan
and adapted
it to the new situation.
But every plan that I did
collapsed again
one more time.
MORGAN FREEMAN, Actor: If you
are one of us,
and you want to explore more of
this great
planet, we are ready to take you
there.
MALCOLM BRABANT: Turkish
Airlines aired this
ad at the Super Bowl, following
losses of
$463 million in the first nine
months of 2016,
after turning an $877 million
profit the previous
year.
MORGAN FREEMAN: Turkish
Airlines.
MALCOLM BRABANT: Tourism
contributes about
10 percent towards Turkey's
overall national
income.
It's a barometer of confidence
in the country
and crucial for foreign currency
earnings.
Nobody is buying at Ertap
Tepeyurt's jewelry
store in one of Istanbul's most
popular arcades.
But he refuses to believe the
economy is permanently
hobbled.
ERTAP TEPEYURT, Turkey (through
translator):
Every downturn is followed by an
upturn.
A large company may collapse,
and then it
may take a long time to recover.
Our hope is that things will
eventually be
alright.
So, because of this expectation,
we need to
be more patient.
MALCOLM BRABANT: Turkey briefly
benefited
from the misfortunes of Tunisia
and Egypt,
whose tourist industries have
been wrecked
by terrorism.
But the impact of contagion is
plain to see.
And restaurant worker Levent
Demir is hoping
for an antidote.
LEVENT DEMIR, Turkey (through
translator):
First of all, for things to get
better, Syria
is critical.
Order needs to be restored in
Syria, because
Turkey is suffering from what's
going on Syria.
The circle of fire around us
needs to be extinguished.
MALCOLM BRABANT: To make matters
worse, Turkish
ports won't be welcoming cruise
liners this
year.
Terrorism and political
uncertainty have led
ratings agencies like Standard &
Poor and
Fitch to relegate the country to
the lowest
investment grades.
In an attempt to bolster the
Turkish currency,
the lira, President Erdogan made
people's
savings an issue of patriotism.
RECEP TAYYIP ERDOGAN, Turkish
President (through
translator): Recently, they
started a row
on foreign currencies.
They say dollar is spiked
against the lira.
This much, that much, it doesn't
matter.
I want to remind my people, my
dear people,
I love you.
Those who keep foreign currency
under their
pillow should come and turn that
into Turkish
lira or gold.
Let Turkish lira gain value.
MALCOLM BRABANT: President
Erdogan has never
been reticent about using the
term terrorist.
And he did so after the Turkish
currency dived
against the U.S. dollar earlier
this year.
He said, you know that the
economy is being
manipulated by those whose
objective is to
attack Turkey.
He said there is no difference
at all between
a terrorist who has a weapon in
his hand and
a terrorist who has a dollar or
euro in his
pocket.
They, he said, use currency as a
weapon.
Turkey's president is bolstered
by cheerleaders
in the press.
Among them, Abdurrahman Dilipak,
a columnist
with an Islamist tabloid
newspaper who we
met in the executive suite a at
the Istanbul
Stock Exchange.
He believes there's
international backing
for FETO, an organization
accused by Turkey
of orchestrating last summer's
coup attempt
against President Erdogan.
ABDURRAHMAN DILIPAK, Columnist
(through translator):
We know that behind this FETO
movement there
is the United States, the CIA,
the RAND Corporation.
Also, there is the Vatican,
Germany, Israel,
England, and France.
We know.
And, in that respect,
manipulation of the
economy must be acknowledged.
It's only natural that there
should be turbulence
in a country which is just
recovering from
a coup attempt.
But some people are fanning the
flames.
No, this is immoral and
unacceptable.
UMIT AKCAY, Economist: Ordinary
people feel
that they need more economic
stability.
MALCOLM BRABANT: But economist
Umit Akcay
says the key numbers affecting
ordinary people
are going the wrong way, like
unemployment,
which now affects 12 percent of
the population.
UMIT AKCAY: Inflation is
increasing, and,
at the same time, the
unemployment rate is
increasing.
It's especially bad for the
young people,
because the young unemployment
rate is about
20 percent.
In 2017, almost all data shows
that this trend
will continue.
MALCOLM BRABANT: President
Erdogan insists
that foreign funds continue to
flow into Turkey,
but other financial experts
believe that continuing
political uncertainty will lead
to capital
flight, as happened in Greece,
with the wealthy
moving their money abroad.
Gokhan Karahan is a consultant
at the sharp
end of this process, as he helps
Turks to
buy property in countries that
will grant
them residency, such as
neighboring Greece.
GOKHAN KARAHAN, Consultant: I am
having more
people that they just need a
plan B. There's
a growing concern about their
children.
Especially young women who have
small children
who were raised with secular
ideas, they're
so much concerned about the
future of their
country.
They want to have some sort of a
guarantee
for their future.
AYSER ALI, Literary Agent: I
just feel surrounded
by people that I don't share
anything with.
MALCOLM BRABANT: Literary agent
Ayser Ali
is alarmed by what she sees as
Turkey's growing
abandonment of Western values
and is joining
the steady trickle of educated
young professionals
quietly slipping abroad.
AYSER ALI: I'm really sorry to
see how hard
it is to build a good society
with values,
and how easy it is to destroy it
in a very,
very short time.
MALCOLM BRABANT: Ayser Ali is
packing up her
books to give to friends before
moving to
Britain.
AYSER ALI: The only thing we can
do is just
to try somewhere else.
I always had even a little spark
of hope all
the time.
But now it's over.
MALCOLM BRABANT: But Janset
Bilgin isn't leaving.
For six years, she ran a small
jewelry and
furniture store.
When business slumped, she
decided she either
had to close up or invest.
She gambled and transformed it
into a cafe.
JANSET BILGIN, Business Owner: I
know the
timing is really bad because the
city is very
quiet now.
Tourists, they don't come.
The locals don't come, because
we're right
in the middle of the city, but
the bombings
and everything are not too far
from here,
so people are kind of scared.
I really don't see a hopeful
future.
But, on the other hand, we love
our country
and don't want to go anywhere.
MALCOLM BRABANT: President
Erdogan insists
that Turkey is a safe haven for
foreign investment.
But financial experts warn that
Turkey can't
afford economic or political
missteps.
They fear the present course
will only increase
the country's financial
troubles.
For the "PBS NewsHour," I'm
Malcolm Brabant
in Istanbul.
JUDY WOODRUFF: There are a
number of questions
facing Republicans in Washington
right now,
from the failure to pass a
health care bill,
to the investigation into Russia
and the Trump
administration.
We look now at what's next for
the majority
party with our Politics Monday
duo, Tamara
Keith of NPR and Amy Walter of
The Cook Political
Report.
Hello to both of you.
So, let's start with what --
Tam, with what
the speaker said last Friday in
trying to
explain why this whole thing
fell apart.
He said, we haven't learned to
be the majority
party.
We haven't learned how to lead.
We're still stuck in the
opposition.
Does that sound like the right
description
of what went wrong?
And can -- is that something
they can learn?
TAMARA KEITH, National Public
Radio: It certainly
is a description.
It turns out that winning
doesn't paper over
all of the divisions that were
there a year
ago or two years ago or three
years ago within
the Republican Party.
And those divisions came out
into bright focus
with this bill.
The reality is that they
actually have a smaller
majority than they did last
year, and they
were not able to send that many
bills to President
Obama's desk to veto.
Now they have a president of
their own party.
As one congressman said, it's
like going from
playing fantasy football to
playing real football.
JUDY WOODRUFF: And this is after
months and
months, Tam, of talking about
the fact that
they were going to undo this.
This was their principal goal
during this
campaign.
TAMARA KEITH: Absolutely.
That was the thing that they
talked about.
It's the thing they have been
talking about
for seven years.
They only worked on it for 18
days.
And then they were like, well,
moving on.
So, now it seems like maybe they
are holding
open the possibility of maybe
coming back
to it.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Amy, what's your
take?
Is this something Republicans
can learn how
to be, in the majority, in
charge?
AMY WALTER, The Cook Political
Report: Well,
I think Tam summed it up pretty
well.
The fact they only spent 18 days
on something
is issue number one.
The second is, of course, that
two-thirds
of the members in the House
right now who
are Republicans have never been
with a Republican
president, so this is a
brand-new situation
for them.
And these divisions, I would
argue, within
the Republican Party have been
around longer
than the last couple of years.
They have been around for 10 or
12 years.
So, this is a lot to overcome.
I think the other thing we
learned, though,
was that Donald Trump's style,
which worked
on the campaign trail, the let's
just rally
and take one for the team, I can
bring the
team together in a campaign,
didn't work in
a legislative sense.
It's not enough to just say,
hey, members
of my own party, vote for
something that's
really unpopular.
I can't really talk to you about
the details
of this policy.
I'm not ideologically attached
to this piece
of legislation.
I can't even tell you that I
want to spend
a whole lot of time selling this
legislation,
but vote for it because you like
me.
And what his party said was,
that's not enough.
It's a really important factor
as we go forward
to whatever the next piece of
legislation
that this Congress wants to get
through.
The power of persuasion of this
president
isn't enough, even though he
remains popular
among his own base.
JUDY WOODRUFF: For sure.
And, Tam, I mean, this brings to
mind, while
the Republicans are trying to
figure out what
they can get done, meanwhile,
the president
was saying to Democrats, hey,
I'm looking
for your ideas.
Come up -- let me know what you
think.
I want to -- I'm ready to deal
with you.
Are Democrats going to follow up
on that?
TAMARA KEITH: Well, that's a
good question.
This president has a pretty
remarkable ability,
going back to when he was in
business, to
reframe defeats as wins.
So he had four business
bankruptcies and he
found a way to say that those
are actually
wins for him.
And so now he has taken this.
And it is a huge political
defeat.
And he said, maybe that's better
because now
I can work two Democrats.
It's not clear at this point the
Democrats
are really interested in handing
him a win.
However, there will come things
like whether
there is a government showdown,
and there
could come a time when Democrats
will possibly
throw a life preserver to avoid
being blamed
for shutting the government
down, but we aren't
there yet.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Amy.
AMY WALTER: Yes, Tam is right.
I mean, the question really is,
what incentive
do Democrats have to work with
this president?
Right now, he has done nothing.
Well, actually, he hasn't done
anything throughout
his time as a candidate or as a
president
to reach out to anybody, besides
the people
who already support him.
And now, after a defeat, he's
going to come
to them and ask for their help?
They don't have much incentive
to do that.
He's a president right now
sitting at somewhere
around 41 percent approval
rating, if you
put all the averages of the
polls together.
Even for red state Democrats,
they don't see
a whole lot to fear either from
crossing him.
And more important, for
Democrats, the Democratic
base is energized.
They are angry.
And they are telling pollsters
the number
one thing they're concerned
about is their
own party's members compromising
with this
president.
So, the president has really
boxed himself
into a corner.
He needs his people to support
him.
And just being rah-rah, team
player, sing
to my base isn't enough to get
them.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Boxed himself
into a corner,
Tam, and at a moment when he
needs a win.
He would like to have -- get
something up
on the board.
How much is he politically set
back by what
happened last week?
TAMARA KEITH: This is a very big
setback legislatively.
He's going to do things that are
sort of small
ball, little chippy wins that
he's going to
do in the coming days.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Chippy?
TAMARA KEITH: Yes, he's going to
sign some
executive orders.
This is not a long drive down
the fairway.
These are little chips.
He is going to sign some
executive orders.
He's going to do what he's been
doing.
But in terms of legislation,
that's much harder.
And now they're saying that they
want to move
to tax reform.
Tax reform is not the easy thing
you go to
after health care.
Tax reform, they haven't done
that in 30 years.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Amy, not the
easiest thing.
AMY WALTER: No, it's not the
And before that -- Tam alluded
to this, but
we have something at the end of
April where
the government funding runs out.
And we may be back in the
situation where
we're talking about a potential
government
showdown.
Again, we're talking about some
fissures within
the Republican Party over issues
like Planned
Parenthood.
And on the Democratic side,
there is going
to be a big pushback on the
inclusion of money
for building that infamous wall
on the border.
So, we could be talking about
not about tax
reform in the next couple of
weeks, but about
government showdown.
That is going to be the next
real big hurdle
for this president.
Now, he could get, with the
Supreme Court
nomination, a pretty significant
win under
his belt before then, but that's
also going
to be really messy.
JUDY WOODRUFF: All right, before
I let you
two go, I have to ask you about
the other
story that is the talk of
Washington today,
has to do, Tam, with the
chairman of the House
Intelligence Committee, Devin
Nunes, who is
the center of a lot of attention
because of
his claim or story last week
that he had information
-- he doesn't say where it came
from.
He was at the White House when
he got this
information that he says
indicates that the
president and people around him
were surveilled,
under surveillance during the
transition.
And he said it has nothing to do
with the
Russia investigation.
What are we to make of all this?
TAMARA KEITH: And he's really
saying that
they were caught up in other
routine and completely
legal surveillance.
This is a very curious story.
And Devin Nunes keeps talking
and talking
and talking.
And every time he talks, it
almost becomes
less clear than it was before.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Amy?
MD+IT /MD-IT /AMY WALTER: Yes,
that's
exactly right.
I do think, though, this is
putting a lot
of pressure on Republicans to
make a statement
about this, whether or not he
can be considered
a credible chair of this
committee, whether
or not he has to recuse himself
from this.
Senator Schumer has already come
out today
saying he should actually step
down as chair
of the Intelligence Committee.
But this is this big, swirling
black cloud.
For those of you who enjoyed the
show "Lost,"
you might remember there was
this big amorphous
cloud that would show up out of
nowhere and
spread destruction.
But that's what this issue of
Russia and surveillance
has become.
And it just pops up, and it
continues to just
distract the administration, and
really push
them off course.
And it has put Nunes into a
terrible position.
I think a lot of pressure coming
on Republicans
in these coming days about
whether their chairman
can stay in his current role.
JUDY WOODRUFF: We're all madly
searching for
analogies, black cloud, black
mass.
AMY WALTER: Black smoke.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Black smoke
covers it all.
Amy Walter, Tamara Keith,
Politics Monday,
thank you both.
TAMARA KEITH: You're welcome.
AMY WALTER: You're welcome.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Finally: a
reexamination of
a couple whose story has been
made even more
relevant for our time.
Jeffrey Brown has this latest
addition to
the "NewsHour" Bookshelf.
JEFFREY BROWN: The most famous
couple in history,
that's one way of looking at
Adam and Eve,
but a useful one if you're
seeking lessons
in their story that continue to
resonate into
our own time.
That's the tag taken in "The
First Love Story:
Adam, Eve, and Us."
Author Bruce Feiler writes
widely on biblical
and other issues.
And he was writer and host of
the PBS series
"Walking the Bible" and "Sacred
Journeys."
Welcome to you.
BRUCE FEILER, Author, "The First
Love Story:
Adam, Eve, and Us": Nice to be
here.
Thanks for having me.
JEFFREY BROWN: I wasn't sure
what I was opening
up.
I expected to see something
about the Bible
and archaeology.
And I did.
But you also write about
yourself, about relationships,
about modern technology.
What were you after in looking
at their story?
BRUCE FEILER: What happened to
me was, we
were on a trip to Rome as a
family.
And we -- I took my daughters
into the Sistine
Chapel.
And I'm like, listen up, girls.
I'm going to blow your mind.
JEFFREY BROWN: Yes.
BRUCE FEILER: And one of them
looks up and
sees Adam and God sailing across
the skies.
JEFFREY BROWN: The famous moment
where they're
touching.
BRUCE FEILER: The famous moment,
and says,
well, you know, where am I in
that picture,
right?
This is from the point of view
of an 8-year-old
girl.
And her sister points out
something I had
never seen before, which is Eve
underneath
God's arm.
And she says, you know, is that
Eve?
That's just when it hit me.
And I realized, for 3,000 years,
this story
has been at the heart of every
conversation
about men, women and sex.
And if I wanted to understand
today, maybe
I needed to understand them.
And, as absurd as it sounds, I
asked myself,
might Adam and Eve be the role
models that
we are looking for?
JEFFREY BROWN: Well, so, OK,
before we -- go
back to the original Adam and
Eve, because
you had to, right?
BRUCE FEILER: Yes.
Yes, exactly.
You have got the original story
that appears
in the text in Genesis.
And then what you have is
organized religion
sort of glomming onto the story
and entirely
reinterpreting it.
And by organized religion, I
mean men.
And I think that what you have
here is a situation
where Adam and Eve, but
especially Eve, are
victims of the greatest
character assassination
the world has ever known.
Basically, the story was
weaponized as a way
to elevate men and to hurt
women.
And you go back to the story,
that's not what
you find.
So, I mean, I think the first
thing, just
to sort of set the stage briefly
here, is,
you have got two stories.
The second story is more famous,
right?
That's -- you have got Adam
being created
from the earth, Eve being
created Adam, the
fruit and getting kicked out of
Eden.
But the first story is very
different, because,
in the first story, you have got
man and woman
being created in the image of
God.
What's true for one is true for
the other.
The whole story begins in
equality.
And that's what got lost in all
these interpretations.
JEFFREY BROWN: One of the
central tenets of
your book is that humans were
meant to be
together, right?
BRUCE FEILER: Yes.
JEFFREY BROWN: But this is a
model for looking
at love.
Give me an example for our
audience to understand
what it is you're -- how you're
bringing their
story up to our own time.
BRUCE FEILER: In every other
story that comes
before, you have got a God, and
a God creating
humans, or a God and a human.
The biblical story represents a
revolution
in thought.
It's the first story that has a
man and woman
at the start of the human line.
They have to succeed in order
for us to succeed.
So, why are they a model?
Because, look, they begin
together, and then
Eve grows Bored.
She wants autonomy.
She wants independence.
She goes and she eats the fruit.
She comes back.
She gives Adam a choice.
And he has to decide, what do I
do?
He chooses her.
They leave Eden.
They could separate.
They stay together and have
children.
One of them murders the other.
They reconcile and have a third.
JEFFREY BROWN: One of my
colleagues was looking
at the book today, and he said
-- and I said
what I was doing.
And he said, you know, this
story doesn't
end well, right?
There's the fall.
There's the banishment.
There's all this trouble.
How is that a model?
BRUCE FEILER: It ends
brilliantly, because
most people think it ends in
Eden.
No, they have -- they become
parents.
It doesn't go well with Cain and
Abel.
That could be the end of the
story.
They reconcile, have a third
child.
It's incredibly inspirational.
So, what I think the lessons
are?
Number one, constancy,
stick-to-itiveness,
right?
The modern psychologists tell us
that you
have to mend relationships.
That's the most important thing.
OK?
Then there's also this
incredible balance
in the story, this mix of
independence and
interdependence.
It's incredibly powerful today
that didn't
happen again until we
re-equalized Eve in
the last couple of decades.
But, to me, the biggest idea
that I have learned
-- I basically went in to write
a book about
Adam and Eve, ended up writing a
book about
love.
And what did I learn?
Love is a story you tell with
another person.
Right?
It's co-creation through
co-narration.
And that's what Adam and Eve
embody.
And what do we learn from them?
When you hit a bump in the road,
you have
a rupture, you add a new chapter
to your story.
They are the first to tell a
story together
and to recognize you need both.
Theirs is the first joint
byline.
And that's a very powerful
lesson for today.
JEFFREY BROWN: The question you
ask here is,
can Adam and Eve be role models
for relationships
today?
And the answer, apparently, is
yes.
BRUCE FEILER: I believe deeply
and profoundly.
And more than that, I think that
we need the
story to work.
At this moment, when
relationships are commodities,
and we let each other down, and
our society
is being frayed -- we all know
that -- we
need our first story to be one
of success.
So, essentially, what I'm saying
to people
is, if you care about men and
women and their
relationship, if you want to
strengthen and
deepen your own relationship, if
you're interested
in love or religion, come on
this journey.
I think, as you have said here,
you will be
surprised.
You will learn something.
But, in the end, I think you
will be uplifted,
because this story works.
And, today, we need stories that
work at the
heart of our culture.
JEFFREY BROWN: The book is "The
First Love
Story: Adam, Eve, and Us."
Bruce Feiler, thank you very
much.
BRUCE FEILER: It's an honor.
Thank you.
JUDY WOODRUFF: On the "NewsHour"
online right
now: Read and hear poetry
written by refugees
and immigrants about finding
home, leaving
loved ones, and more.
These poems are part of a
national campaign
that's finding special resonance
with readers
now.
All that and more is on our Web
site, PBS.org/NewsHour.
And that's the "NewsHour" for
tonight.
On Tuesday: Syrian refugees
fleeing civil
war find they are less welcome
now in the
neighboring country of Turkey.
I'm Judy Woodruff.
Join us online and again here
tomorrow evening.
For all of us at the "PBS
NewsHour," thank
you, and we will see you soon.
END